_pages/about.md, before:

---
layout: about
title: about
permalink: /
# subtitle: <a href='#'>Affiliations</a>. Address. Contacts. Moto. Etc.

profile:
  align: right
  image: prof_pic.jpg
  image_circular: false # crops the image to make it circular
  more_info: >
    <p>Room #705, E106 Bldg, UNIST</p>

social: true # includes social icons at the bottom of the page
news: false # includes a list of news items
selected_papers: false # includes a list of papers marked as "selected={true}"
---

<!-- I am currently a M.S. student advised by Prof. [Taehwan Kim](https://sites.google.com/view/taehwankim), in [Machine Learning, Vision & Language LAB (MVLLAB)](https://sites.google.com/view/mvllab) at [Ulsan National Institute of Science and Technology (UNIST)](https://www.unist.ac.kr/). Previously, I earned my B.S. degree from the Computer Science Engineering department at UNIST (Feb. 2025). -->

I am currently an Undergraduate student in Computer Science Engineering at [Ulsan National Institute of Science and Technology (UNIST)](https://www.unist.ac.kr/).

My research aims to effectively train deep neural networks with multi-modality (vision, audio and text). Also, I have an interest in developing innovative applications and techniques related to offering familarity of AI usage for people.

Commit message:

modify about.md and config.yml afterward run prettier

_pages/about.md, after:

---
layout: about
title: about
permalink: /
# subtitle: <a href='#'>Affiliations</a>. Address. Contacts. Moto. Etc.

profile:
  align: right
  image: prof_pic.jpg
  image_circular: false # crops the image to make it circular
  more_info: >
    <p>Room #703-2, E106 Bldg, UNIST</p>

social: true # includes social icons at the bottom of the page
news: false # includes a list of news items
selected_papers: false # includes a list of papers marked as "selected={true}"
---

<!-- I am currently a M.S. student advised by Prof. [Taehwan Kim](https://sites.google.com/view/taehwankim), in [Machine Learning, Vision & Language LAB (MVLLAB)](https://sites.google.com/view/mvllab) at [Ulsan National Institute of Science and Technology (UNIST)](https://www.unist.ac.kr/). Previously, I earned my B.S. degree from the Computer Science Engineering department at UNIST (Feb. 2025). -->

I am currently an Undergraduate Research Intern in [IMML lab](https://sites.google.com/view/mvllab/home?authuser=0) at [UNIST AIGS](https://aigs.unist.ac.kr/). I obtained my B.S. from [Ulsan National Institute of Science and Technology (UNIST)](https://www.unist.ac.kr/) in Computer Science Engineering.

My research aims to develop efficient machine learning methods in multimodal contrastive representations. I am passionate about innovative applications and techniques related to offering familarity of AI usage for people, and advancing scientific knowledge.
